

Introduction
------------
The SPC (Signal Processing & Communications) software package is
the result of thesis work originated in Spring 1993 at the Naval
Postgraduate School as originally a class project in speech
processing. The project developed an interactive, user-friendly,
tools to analyze speech signals using MATLAB. Then, as with any
project left without a fixed deadline, it grew to include more
sophisticated analysis tools such as various filtering techniques, Autoregressive (AR) and linear Auto Regressive-Moving Average (ARMA)
modeling methods. Finally, it was expanded to include some basic
communication tools.

This is a BETA release version of this software package designed
to provide the user with a series of data manipulation tools which
use the MATLAB v.4 graphical user interface. SPC can be used in the
classroom to illustrate and to reinforce basic concepts in digital
signal processing and communications. It frees the user from having
to write and debug his/her own code and gives him/her more time to
understand the advantages and drawbacks of each technique included
in the package. It can also be used as a basic analysis and modeling
tool for research in Signal Processing. SPC is well suited to reinforce
basic concepts presented in the following courses offered at the Naval
Postgraduate School:

	EC4410: Speech Processing,
	EC4420: Modern Spectral Estimation,
	EC4470: Adaptive Signal Processing,
	EC3420: Statistical Digital Signal Processing,
	EC3400: Digital Signal Processing,
	EC2500: Communication Theory.

We hope that users will find this package useful, and we welcome any
comments and suggestions regarding this software at

	Dennis W. Brown, dwbrown@access.digex.net

	or

	Prof. Monique Fargues, fargues@ece.nps.navy.mil.


Disclaimer
----------
This software package is made available as a service to the academic
community. It is not a depository of Mathworks approved software.
The authors make no warranty of any kind, expressed or implied, with
regard to these programs or the documentation contained in this report.
Use of these programs is at the users' own risk and the authors
disclaim all liability for injury, damage, and losses that may result
from their use. Losses include, but are not limited to, loss of data
or data being rendered inaccurate, or losses sustained by third parties
for a failure of the software to operate. The U.S. Government assumes no
responsibility for the information provided. Matlab is a trademark of
The Mathworks. Microsoft Windows is a trademark of Microsoft. Sun is a
trademark of Sun Microsystems. Soundblaster is a trademark of Creative
Labs, Inc.
